doc/source/ascii-hangman--manual.adoc, before:

= ASCII Art Hangman for Kids
Jens Getreu <getreu@web.de>
v5.2.0, 1.7.2020
:imagesdir: images
:toc:
:numbering:



// excerpt-begin

_ASCII-Hangman_ is a paper and pencil guessing game for two or more players.  One player
thinks of a word, phrase or sentence and the other tries to guess it by
suggesting letters or numbers, within a certain number of guesses. In this
version for children the computer selects a word, phrase or sentence randomly
out of a word-list defined in a configuration file. 
// excerpt-end

In the course of the game ASCII-Art images - designed for children - are
progressively disclosed. There are 30 built in ASCII-Art images from which one
is chosen randomly at the beginning of the game. Alternatively own ASCII-Art
can be provided in the configuration file.

_ASCII-Hangman_ is available as web-application and can be played online here:
https://blog.getreu.net/projects/ascii-hangman/web-app/[ASCII-Hangman Web-App].

.ASCII Hangman web-app version
image::ASCII-Hangman-Web-App.gif[ASCII-Hangman Web Application,500,400,pdfwidth=50%,scaledwidth=50%]

_ASCII-Hangman_ is also available as desktop-terminal-application for Linux, Mac and Windows. Download and installation instruction are here: 
https://blog.getreu.net/projects/ascii-hangman/#distribution[ASCII-Hangman Desktop App].

.ASCII Hangman terminal version
image::ASCII-Hangman-Terminal.png[ASCII-Hangman Web Application,400,320,pdfwidth=40%,scaledwidth=40%]


The project is hosted on Github:
https://github.com/getreu/ascii-hangman[getreu/ascii-hangman].
The project's webpage is on
http://blog.getreu.net/projects/ascii-hangman/[getreu.net].
There you also find a
https://blog.getreu.net/_downloads/ascii-hangman.pdf[
pdf rendition] of this document and compiled 
https://blog.getreu.net/_downloads/ascii-hangman.zip[binaries].

== Getting started

=== ASCII-Hangman installation

The web-app version does not need to be installed. Just navigate to
https://blog.getreu.net/projects/ascii-hangman/web-app/[ASCII-Hangman Web-App].

As far as the desktop version is concerned, there is no installation in the
proper sense either, as the whole application consists of only one binary file.
Download this file here:
https://blog.getreu.net/projects/ascii-hangman/#distribution[ASCII-Hangman
Desktop App] and just execute it.

=== ASCII-Hangman invocation: how to start the game

==== Web-App

Navigate to https://blog.getreu.net/projects/ascii-hangman/web-app[ASCII-Hangman-Web-App].


==== Linux

1. Open a terminal

2. Navigate to a folder containing configuration files, e.g.
  
     cd vocabulary-chapter-1

3. If the folder contains only one configuration file `hangman-words.txt`
just type

     ascii-hangman
+
otherwise type, e.g.

     ascii-hangman words-page3.txt words-page5.txt

==== Windows

1. Open the folder where the `ascii-hangman.exe` file resides.

2. Open a second explorer window and navigate to a folder with a configuration
file.

3. Drag and drop one or more configuration files on `ascii-hangman.exe`.




== ASCII-Hangman configuration

_ASCII-Hangman_ needs a custom list of secrets it can choose secrets to let the
user guess.  This list is provided by a configuration file with a very simple
syntax explained below. When you start the desktop version for the first time,
a sample configuration file, named `ascii-hangman-words.txt`, is created.
Adding own secrets to this file can be done with any text editor. Next time
_ASCII-Hangman_ starts, its will read the modified list of secrets.

The Web-App version of _ASCII-Hangman_ works similar. Here the programm starts
with a configuration page allowing you to enter the list of secrets directly
without external editor. If you wish, you can download a prepared list of 
secrets from a file on your disk. Note, it is possible to select more than one
file in the file-selector-dialogue.



=== Linux configuration


. Run _ASCII-Hangman_ once. It creates a configuration file
  `ascii-hangman-words.txt` in the current working directory.

. Edit the configuration file

 nano ascii-hangman-words.txt

. Start the game

 ./ascii-hangman


=== Windows configuration

. Generate a configuration file in your working directory
+
Double click on `ascii-hangman.exe`
+
This creates the file `ascii-hangman_words.txt`

. Edit the configuration file
+
Double-click on `ascii-hangman-words.txt`. This opens the file in the `Notepad` 
editor. Add own secrets, one per line.

. Start the game
+
Double-click on `ascii-hangman.exe`.


=== Synopsis and syntax

include::../../../src/main.rs[lines="66..107"]



=== Sample configuration files

==== Simple configuration file

----
guess me
hangman
good luck
3*7=21
----

==== Simple configuration file with hints

----
guess me
hang_man_
_good l_uck
_3*_7_=21_
----

==== Configuration file with custom image

A configuration file may contain a custom image. The image is gradually 
disclosed after each right guess.

----
- _guess_ me
- hang_man_
- good luck
- _3*_7_=21_


:success-rewarding
|      !!!!\\\\
|    '`!_  ||||
|     ` \`-'''|
|       `\   /
|        )\  \
| ejm   /  \  \
|           \|

# Author: ejm
----

It is also possible to split the word list and the image into two files and load
them separately:

      ascii-hangman wordlist.txt custom-image.txt

==== Configuration file with traditional gallows image

The following image has a different rewarding mode: The image is gradually
disclosed after each lost life.

----
- _guess _me
- hang_man_
- _good l_uck


:traditional-rewarding
|  ______
|  |    |
|  |    O
|  |   /|\
|  |    |
|  |   / \
|__|_____
||      |___
||_________|
----


== Play the game in the classroom

The game is designed for classroom usage, but can be played alone as well.

=== Classroom requirements

*  Big screen or projector

*  Browser with Internet access - or -

*  Windows or Linux Computer with `ascii-hangman.exe` or `ascii-hangman` 
   binary installed.

=== Prepare a configuration file with secret words

The following may serve as a suggestion how to integrate the game in
a lesson in class:

The aim of the game is to consolidate recently learned vocabulary. 
For this purpose the class composes a vocabulary list of words or expressions,
hereafter referred to as list of secrets words.

*  The class composes the list of secrets together with the teacher. 
   To optimize the learning progress, it is most useful to involve the pupils 
   in the preparation of the list of secrets, e.g.:
   One pupil types the suggested words into the configuration file, the others
   follow at the screen and correct spelling mistakes. 

*  The list of secrets can be recent vocabulary or calculation exercises. A
   secret is always encoded as one line in the configuration file and can be a
   word or a whole sentence of vocabulary or even a math exercise.

*  To give an additional hint it, is possible to tag a part of the secret
   sentence. This part will be disclosed immediately when the game starts.   

*  When the game starts the computer will choose one secret of the list
   randomly. The teacher can play also as he does not know the next secret
   either. Every secret appears only once, unless it is not guessed
   correctly. Then it will appear again at some random time in the future.

=== Game rules

The following rules are designed to stimulate the participation of the
whole group of learners. Vary them according to your needs.

1. The whole class is asked to write down all guessed letters on a sheet of 
   paper.

2. A player can guess again when when the last guess was right, meaning the
   secret contained the guessed letter.

3. If not, the next player may try it. In bigger groups the next player should
   be chosen randomly. This incites the whole group as nobody knows who will 
   be the next.

4. A player is not allowed to ask others to remind him if a letter was already
   tried or not. He has to solely rely on his own notes.

5. The winner of the game it the person who discloses the last letter of the
   secret word.


Alternatively, the game can be played in a more disorganized manner:  In order
to activate a group, choose a game master who will type the letters the 
group calls in.


== Data privacy statement

All versions of _ASCII-Hangman_ run locally on your computer and do not
collect or transfer any data. 

This applies in particular to the web application version of _ASCII-Hangman_:
due to its Web-Assembly-technology, the programm runs - once started - entirely
in your Web-Browser's sandbox without any networks connection.

Commit message:

doc: there is no built-in gallows image

doc/source/ascii-hangman--manual.adoc, after:

= ASCII Art Hangman for Kids
Jens Getreu <getreu@web.de>
v5.2.0, 1.7.2020
:imagesdir: images
:toc:
:numbering:



// excerpt-begin

_ASCII-Hangman_ is a paper and pencil guessing game for two or more players.  One player
thinks of a word, phrase or sentence and the other tries to guess it by
suggesting letters or numbers, within a certain number of guesses. In this
version for children the computer selects a word, phrase or sentence randomly
out of a word-list defined in a configuration file. 
// excerpt-end

In the course of the game ASCII-Art images - designed for children - are
progressively disclosed. There are 30 built in ASCII-Art images from which one
is chosen randomly at the beginning of the game. Alternatively own ASCII-Art
can be provided in the configuration file.

_ASCII-Hangman_ is available as web-application and can be played online here:
https://blog.getreu.net/projects/ascii-hangman/web-app/[ASCII-Hangman Web-App].

.ASCII Hangman web-app version
image::ASCII-Hangman-Web-App.gif[ASCII-Hangman Web Application,500,400,pdfwidth=50%,scaledwidth=50%]

_ASCII-Hangman_ is also available as desktop-terminal-application for Linux, Mac and Windows. Download and installation instruction are here: 
https://blog.getreu.net/projects/ascii-hangman/#distribution[ASCII-Hangman Desktop App].

.ASCII Hangman terminal version
image::ASCII-Hangman-Terminal.png[ASCII-Hangman Web Application,400,320,pdfwidth=40%,scaledwidth=40%]


The project is hosted on Github:
https://github.com/getreu/ascii-hangman[getreu/ascii-hangman].
The project's webpage is on
http://blog.getreu.net/projects/ascii-hangman/[getreu.net].
There you also find a
https://blog.getreu.net/_downloads/ascii-hangman.pdf[
pdf rendition] of this document and compiled 
https://blog.getreu.net/_downloads/ascii-hangman.zip[binaries].

== Getting started

=== ASCII-Hangman installation

The web-app version does not need to be installed. Just navigate to
https://blog.getreu.net/projects/ascii-hangman/web-app/[ASCII-Hangman Web-App].

As far as the desktop version is concerned, there is no installation in the
proper sense either, as the whole application consists of only one binary file.
Download this file here:
https://blog.getreu.net/projects/ascii-hangman/#distribution[ASCII-Hangman
Desktop App] and just execute it.

=== ASCII-Hangman invocation: how to start the game

==== Web-App

Navigate to https://blog.getreu.net/projects/ascii-hangman/web-app[ASCII-Hangman-Web-App].


==== Linux

1. Open a terminal

2. Navigate to a folder containing configuration files, e.g.
  
     cd vocabulary-chapter-1

3. If the folder contains only one configuration file `hangman-words.txt`
just type

     ascii-hangman
+
otherwise type, e.g.

     ascii-hangman words-page3.txt words-page5.txt

==== Windows

1. Open the folder where the `ascii-hangman.exe` file resides.

2. Open a second explorer window and navigate to a folder with a configuration
file.

3. Drag and drop one or more configuration files on `ascii-hangman.exe`.




== ASCII-Hangman configuration

_ASCII-Hangman_ needs a custom list of secrets it can choose secrets to let the
user guess.  This list is provided by a configuration file with a very simple
syntax explained below. When you start the desktop version for the first time,
a sample configuration file, named `ascii-hangman-words.txt`, is created.
Adding own secrets to this file can be done with any text editor. Next time
_ASCII-Hangman_ starts, its will read the modified list of secrets.

The Web-App version of _ASCII-Hangman_ works similar. Here the programm starts
with a configuration page allowing you to enter the list of secrets directly
without external editor. If you wish, you can download a prepared list of 
secrets from a file on your disk. Note, it is possible to select more than one
file in the file-selector-dialogue.



=== Linux configuration


. Run _ASCII-Hangman_ once. It creates a configuration file
  `ascii-hangman-words.txt` in the current working directory.

. Edit the configuration file

 nano ascii-hangman-words.txt

. Start the game

 ./ascii-hangman


=== Windows configuration

. Generate a configuration file in your working directory
+
Double click on `ascii-hangman.exe`
+
This creates the file `ascii-hangman_words.txt`

. Edit the configuration file
+
Double-click on `ascii-hangman-words.txt`. This opens the file in the `Notepad` 
editor. Add own secrets, one per line.

. Start the game
+
Double-click on `ascii-hangman.exe`.


=== Synopsis and syntax

include::../../../src/main.rs[lines="66..107"]



=== Sample configuration files

==== Simple configuration file

----
guess me
hangman
good luck
3*7=21
----

==== Simple configuration file with hints

----
guess me
hang_man_
_good l_uck
_3*_7_=21_
----

==== Configuration file with custom image

A configuration file may contain a custom image. The image is gradually 
disclosed after each right guess.

----
- _guess_ me
- hang_man_
- good luck
- _3*_7_=21_


:success-rewarding
|      !!!!\\\\
|    '`!_  ||||
|     ` \`-'''|
|       `\   /
|        )\  \
| ejm   /  \  \
|           \|

# Author: ejm
----

It is also possible to split the word list and the image into two files and load
them separately:

      ascii-hangman wordlist.txt custom-image.txt

==== Configuration file with traditional gallows image

The following image has a different rewarding mode: The image is gradually
disclosed after each lost life.

----
- _guess _me
- hang_man_
- _good l_uck


:traditional-rewarding
|  ______
|  |    |
|  |    O
|  |   /|\
|  |    |
|  |   / \
|__|_____
||      |___
||_________|
----

Note: The gallows image is not part of the built-in ASCII-art. If wished for,
it can be defined it the configuration file.


== Play the game in the classroom

The game is designed for classroom usage, but can be played alone as well.

=== Classroom requirements

*  Big screen or projector

*  Browser with Internet access - or -

*  Windows or Linux Computer with `ascii-hangman.exe` or `ascii-hangman` 
   binary installed.

=== Prepare a configuration file with secret words

The following may serve as a suggestion how to integrate the game in
a lesson in class:

The aim of the game is to consolidate recently learned vocabulary. 
For this purpose the class composes a vocabulary list of words or expressions,
hereafter referred to as list of secrets words.

*  The class composes the list of secrets together with the teacher. 
   To optimize the learning progress, it is most useful to involve the pupils 
   in the preparation of the list of secrets, e.g.:
   One pupil types the suggested words into the configuration file, the others
   follow at the screen and correct spelling mistakes. 

*  The list of secrets can be recent vocabulary or calculation exercises. A
   secret is always encoded as one line in the configuration file and can be a
   word or a whole sentence of vocabulary or even a math exercise.

*  To give an additional hint it, is possible to tag a part of the secret
   sentence. This part will be disclosed immediately when the game starts.   

*  When the game starts the computer will choose one secret of the list
   randomly. The teacher can play also as he does not know the next secret
   either. Every secret appears only once, unless it is not guessed
   correctly. Then it will appear again at some random time in the future.

=== Game rules

The following rules are designed to stimulate the participation of the
whole group of learners. Vary them according to your needs.

1. The whole class is asked to write down all guessed letters on a sheet of 
   paper.

2. A player can guess again when when the last guess was right, meaning the
   secret contained the guessed letter.

3. If not, the next player may try it. In bigger groups the next player should
   be chosen randomly. This incites the whole group as nobody knows who will 
   be the next.

4. A player is not allowed to ask others to remind him if a letter was already
   tried or not. He has to solely rely on his own notes.

5. The winner of the game it the person who discloses the last letter of the
   secret word.


Alternatively, the game can be played in a more disorganized manner:  In order
to activate a group, choose a game master who will type the letters the 
group calls in.


== Data privacy statement

All versions of _ASCII-Hangman_ run locally on your computer and do not
collect or transfer any data. 

This applies in particular to the web application version of _ASCII-Hangman_:
due to its Web-Assembly-technology, the programm runs - once started - entirely
in your Web-Browser's sandbox without any networks connection.
