doc/source/index.adoc, before:

= ASCII Art Hangman for Kids
Jens Getreu <getreu@web.de>
v4.6.0, 12.5.2019
:imagesdir: images
:toc:
:numbering:

----
ASCII-ART HANGMAN FOR KIDS

          ,.
         (_|,.
        ,' /, )_____
     __j o``-'
    (")
     `-j
       `-._(
          |_\  |--^.
         /_]'|_| /_
            /_]'  /

Lives:	7	Last guess: k

 g o o d   l u _ k

Type a letter, then press [Enter]: 
----



// excerpt-begin

Hangman is a paper and pencil guessing game for two or more players.  One player
thinks of a word, phrase or sentence and the other tries to guess it by
suggesting letters or numbers, within a certain number of guesses. In this
version for children the computer selects a word, phrase or sentence randomly
out of a word-list defined in a configuration file. 
// excerpt-end

In the course of the game
ASCII-Art images - designed for children - are progressively disclosed. There
are 30 built in ASCII-Art images from which one is chosen randomly at the
beginning of the game. Alternatively own ASCII-Art can be provided in the
configuration file.


The project is hosted on Github:
https://github.com/getreu/asciiart-hangman-for-kids[getreu/asciiart-hangman-for-kids].
The project's webpage is on
http://blog.getreu.net/projects/asciiart-hangman-for-kids/[getreu.net].
There you also find a
https://blog.getreu.net/_downloads/asciiart-hangman-for-kids.pdf[
pdf rendition] of this document and compiled 
https://blog.getreu.net/_downloads/asciiart-hangman-for-kids.zip[binaries].

== Installation

=== Linux

.Short instructions 

https://blog.getreu.net/_downloads/asciiart-hangman-for-kids.zip[Download]
`.zip` file, unpack, find `hangman` binary, grant execution permissions, open
terminal, type `./hangman`.

.Detailed instructions

. Open a terminal window

. Download the binary `hangman` from 
https://blog.getreu.net/_downloads/asciiart-hangman-for-kids.zip[here].
 
 wget https://blog.getreu.net/_downloads/asciiart-hangman-for-kids.zip

. Extract the contents from the archive

 unzip asciiart-hangman-for-kids.zip

. Copy the binary to `$PATH`

 sudo cp ./dist/bin/hangman /usr/local/bin
 sudo chmod 775 /usr/local/hangman

. Generate a sample configuration file in your home directory

 cd
 hangman

. Edit the configuration file

 nano hangman-words.txt

. Start the game

 hangman
+
.Linux version
image::01-Screenshot-Linux.png[Linux version,640,480,pdfwidth=50%,scaledwidth=50%]

=== Windows

.Short instructions 

https://blog.getreu.net/_downloads/asciiart-hangman-for-kids.zip[Download]
`.zip` file, unpack, find the `.exe` binary, grant execution rights, double-click to start.

.Detailed instructions

. Download the binary `hangman` from 
https://blog.getreu.net/_downloads/asciiart-hangman-for-kids.zip[here].

. Extract the contents of the archive
+
Click right on  `asciiart-hangman-for-kids.zip` -> _Extract all_.

. Navigate to the hangman binary
+
Change into folder `./dist/bin/` 

. Add _Read and Execute_ permissions
+
Right click on `hangman.exe` -> Properties -> Security -> "Everyone" -> Edit
+
"Everyone" -> Add -> "Read and Execute" -> Ok


. Generate a sample configuration file in your working directory
+
Double click on `hangman.exe`
+
This creates the file `hangman_words.txt`

. Edit the configuration file
+
Right-click on `hangman-words.txt` -> Open with -> Wordpad

. Start the game
+
Double-click on `hangman.exe`.
+
image::02-Screenshot-Windows.png[]



== Configuration

=== Synopsis and syntax

include::../../src/main.rs[lines="60..121"]



=== Sample configuration files

==== Simple configuration file

----
guess me
hangman
good luck
----

==== Simple configuration file with hints

----
guess me
hang_man_
_good l_uck
----

==== Configuration file with custom image

A configuration file may contain a custom image. The image is gradually 
disclosed after each right guess.

----
- _guess_ me
- hang_man_
- good luck


:success-rewarding
|      !!!!\\\\
|    '`!_  ||||
|     ` \`-'''|
|       `\   /
|        )\  \
| ejm   /  \  \
|           \|

# Author: ejm
----

It is also possible to split the word list and the image into two files and load
them separately:

      hangman wordlist.txt custom-image.txt

==== Configuration file with traditional gallows image

The following image has a different rewarding mode: The image is gradually
disclosed after each lost life.

----
- _guess _me
- hang_man_
- _good l_uck


:traditional-rewarding
|  ______
|  |    |
|  |    O
|  |   /|\
|  |    |
|  |   / \
|__|_____
||      |___
||_________|
----


== Play the game 

The game is designed for classroom usage, but can be played alone as well.

=== Classroom requirements

*  Big screen or projector

*  Windows or Linux Computer with `hangman.exe` or `hangman` binary installed.

=== Prepare a configuration file with secret words

The aim of the game is to consolidate recently learned vocabulary. 
For this purpose the class composes a vocabulary list of words or expressions,
hereafter referred to as list of secrets words.

*  The class composes the list of secrets together with the teacher. 
   To optimize the learning progress, it is most useful to involve the pupils 
   in the preparation of the list of secrets, e.g.:
   One pupil types the suggested words into the configuration file, the others
   follow at the screen and correct spelling mistakes. 

*  The list of secrets can be recent vocabulary or calculation exercises. A
   secret is always encoded as one line in the configuration file and can be a
   word or a whole sentence of vocabulary or even a math exercise.

*  To give an additional hint it, is possible to tag a part of the secret
   sentence. This part will be disclosed immediately when the game starts.   

*  When the game starts the computer will choose one secret of the list
*  randomly.  The teacher can also as he does not know either.


=== Game rules

The following rules make sure that the whole class participates.  

1. The whole class is asked to write down all guessed letters on a sheet of 
   paper.

2. A player can guess again when when the last guess was right, meaning the
   secret contained the guessed letter.

3. If not, the next player may try it. In bigger groups the next player should
   be chosen randomly. This incites the whole group as nobody knows who will 
   be the next.

4. A player is not allowed to ask others to remind him if a letter was already
   tried or not. He has to solely rely on his own notes.

5. The winner of the game it the person who discloses the last letter of the
   secret word.

=== Start the game

==== Linux

1. Open a terminal

2. Navigate to a folder containing configuration files, e.g.
  
     cd vocabulary-chapter-1

3. If the folder contains only one configuration file `hangman-words.txt`
just type

     hangman
+
otherwise type, e.g.

     hangman words-page3.txt words-page5.txt

==== Windows

1. Open the folder where the `hangman.exe` file resides.

2. Open a second explorer window and navigate to a folder with a configuration
file.

3. Drag and drop one or more configuration files on `hangman.exe`.

Commit message:

document that `notepad` can edit config files
As the template is now stored in DOS format, even old notepad can handle
it.

doc/source/index.adoc, after:

= ASCII Art Hangman for Kids
Jens Getreu <getreu@web.de>
v4.6.0, 12.5.2019
:imagesdir: images
:toc:
:numbering:

----
ASCII-ART HANGMAN FOR KIDS

          ,.
         (_|,.
        ,' /, )_____
     __j o``-'
    (")
     `-j
       `-._(
          |_\  |--^.
         /_]'|_| /_
            /_]'  /

Lives:	7	Last guess: k

 g o o d   l u _ k

Type a letter, then press [Enter]: 
----



// excerpt-begin

Hangman is a paper and pencil guessing game for two or more players.  One player
thinks of a word, phrase or sentence and the other tries to guess it by
suggesting letters or numbers, within a certain number of guesses. In this
version for children the computer selects a word, phrase or sentence randomly
out of a word-list defined in a configuration file. 
// excerpt-end

In the course of the game
ASCII-Art images - designed for children - are progressively disclosed. There
are 30 built in ASCII-Art images from which one is chosen randomly at the
beginning of the game. Alternatively own ASCII-Art can be provided in the
configuration file.


The project is hosted on Github:
https://github.com/getreu/asciiart-hangman-for-kids[getreu/asciiart-hangman-for-kids].
The project's webpage is on
http://blog.getreu.net/projects/asciiart-hangman-for-kids/[getreu.net].
There you also find a
https://blog.getreu.net/_downloads/asciiart-hangman-for-kids.pdf[
pdf rendition] of this document and compiled 
https://blog.getreu.net/_downloads/asciiart-hangman-for-kids.zip[binaries].

== Installation

=== Linux

.Short instructions 

https://blog.getreu.net/_downloads/asciiart-hangman-for-kids.zip[Download]
`.zip` file, unpack, find `hangman` binary, grant execution permissions, open
terminal, type `./hangman`.

.Detailed instructions

. Open a terminal window

. Download the binary `hangman` from 
https://blog.getreu.net/_downloads/asciiart-hangman-for-kids.zip[here].
 
 wget https://blog.getreu.net/_downloads/asciiart-hangman-for-kids.zip

. Extract the contents from the archive

 unzip asciiart-hangman-for-kids.zip

. Copy the binary to `$PATH`

 sudo cp ./dist/bin/hangman /usr/local/bin
 sudo chmod 775 /usr/local/hangman

. Generate a sample configuration file in your home directory

 cd
 hangman

. Edit the configuration file

 nano hangman-words.txt

. Start the game

 hangman
+
.Linux version
image::01-Screenshot-Linux.png[Linux version,640,480,pdfwidth=50%,scaledwidth=50%]

=== Windows

.Short instructions 

https://blog.getreu.net/_downloads/asciiart-hangman-for-kids.zip[Download]
`.zip` file, unpack, find the `.exe` binary, grant execution rights, double-click to start.

.Detailed instructions

. Download the binary `hangman` from 
https://blog.getreu.net/_downloads/asciiart-hangman-for-kids.zip[here].

. Extract the contents of the archive
+
Click right on  `asciiart-hangman-for-kids.zip` -> _Extract all_.

. Navigate to the hangman binary
+
Change into folder `./dist/bin/` 

. Add _Read and Execute_ permissions
+
Right click on `hangman.exe` -> Properties -> Security -> "Everyone" -> Edit
+
"Everyone" -> Add -> "Read and Execute" -> Ok


. Generate a sample configuration file in your working directory
+
Double click on `hangman.exe`
+
This creates the file `hangman_words.txt`

. Edit the configuration file
+
Double-click on `hangman-words.txt`. This opens the file in the `Notepad` 
editor. Add own secrets, one per line.

. Start the game
+
Double-click on `hangman.exe`.
+
image::02-Screenshot-Windows.png[]



== Configuration

=== Synopsis and syntax

include::../../src/main.rs[lines="60..121"]



=== Sample configuration files

==== Simple configuration file

----
guess me
hangman
good luck
----

==== Simple configuration file with hints

----
guess me
hang_man_
_good l_uck
----

==== Configuration file with custom image

A configuration file may contain a custom image. The image is gradually 
disclosed after each right guess.

----
- _guess_ me
- hang_man_
- good luck


:success-rewarding
|      !!!!\\\\
|    '`!_  ||||
|     ` \`-'''|
|       `\   /
|        )\  \
| ejm   /  \  \
|           \|

# Author: ejm
----

It is also possible to split the word list and the image into two files and load
them separately:

      hangman wordlist.txt custom-image.txt

==== Configuration file with traditional gallows image

The following image has a different rewarding mode: The image is gradually
disclosed after each lost life.

----
- _guess _me
- hang_man_
- _good l_uck


:traditional-rewarding
|  ______
|  |    |
|  |    O
|  |   /|\
|  |    |
|  |   / \
|__|_____
||      |___
||_________|
----


== Play the game 

The game is designed for classroom usage, but can be played alone as well.

=== Classroom requirements

*  Big screen or projector

*  Windows or Linux Computer with `hangman.exe` or `hangman` binary installed.

=== Prepare a configuration file with secret words

The aim of the game is to consolidate recently learned vocabulary. 
For this purpose the class composes a vocabulary list of words or expressions,
hereafter referred to as list of secrets words.

*  The class composes the list of secrets together with the teacher. 
   To optimize the learning progress, it is most useful to involve the pupils 
   in the preparation of the list of secrets, e.g.:
   One pupil types the suggested words into the configuration file, the others
   follow at the screen and correct spelling mistakes. 

*  The list of secrets can be recent vocabulary or calculation exercises. A
   secret is always encoded as one line in the configuration file and can be a
   word or a whole sentence of vocabulary or even a math exercise.

*  To give an additional hint it, is possible to tag a part of the secret
   sentence. This part will be disclosed immediately when the game starts.   

*  When the game starts the computer will choose one secret of the list
*  randomly.  The teacher can also as he does not know either.


=== Game rules

The following rules make sure that the whole class participates.  

1. The whole class is asked to write down all guessed letters on a sheet of 
   paper.

2. A player can guess again when when the last guess was right, meaning the
   secret contained the guessed letter.

3. If not, the next player may try it. In bigger groups the next player should
   be chosen randomly. This incites the whole group as nobody knows who will 
   be the next.

4. A player is not allowed to ask others to remind him if a letter was already
   tried or not. He has to solely rely on his own notes.

5. The winner of the game it the person who discloses the last letter of the
   secret word.

=== Start the game

==== Linux

1. Open a terminal

2. Navigate to a folder containing configuration files, e.g.
  
     cd vocabulary-chapter-1

3. If the folder contains only one configuration file `hangman-words.txt`
just type

     hangman
+
otherwise type, e.g.

     hangman words-page3.txt words-page5.txt

==== Windows

1. Open the folder where the `hangman.exe` file resides.

2. Open a second explorer window and navigate to a folder with a configuration
file.

3. Drag and drop one or more configuration files on `hangman.exe`.
